The Dreaded Race on Deimos
joadavis Feb 2017

The idea is to capture some of the fun of Robo Rally into a slightly more interactive python game.

First pass will be text only to work out logic and mechanics.  This worked ok for Splendiferous.

Premise:
The countries of the world worked together in harmony to establish the
first robotic research and production facility on Deimos, moon of Mars.
But back on Earth, policies changed and funding ran out, so now each 
country has decided to pull the plug on the facility.
You are part of the remaining skeleton crew on Earth who runs what is 
left of this once amazing technical marvel.
So in the spirit of national pride, you challenge the other remaining 
nations to a race.  The Dreaded Race.


Key points of play:
Play takes place in an automated factory on Deimos. (basic square map)
The factory is full of obstacles and dangers - conveyer belts, lasers,
pits, smelters, rock crushers, etc.
Players control one robot, with a large lag.
Players send commands to their robot, but it takes 9 cycles for each 
command to reach execution.
When a bot is damaged, the last command gets locked in and will repeat
9 cycles later.
A bot may be reset by pausing for a turn.
Players don't see other player's next move. 
(consider showing damage status ticker that cycles with damaged commands - 00X0000XX)
The goal of the game is to race through a set of target spaces in order, 
collecting a flag/marker at each, then reach the finish line first.
Possible moves- Forward, back, turn left, turn right, fire laser.  
Add forward 1 or 2?  Spin around?
Do players get to pick from all possible cards, or just a drawn set each time?
Do locked in commands mean that command is not an option?
Each bot can take 3 hits before shutdown.  Can voluntarily shut down
to repair.  OR just let it get locked in and roll to doom?


Programming tasks:
board generator - or use canned boards to start
game class
player class (ai and human)
move card dealer - part of player or part of game?
simple text output - show board with bots + dir, show other players, 
show current command queue, show available command options
