Design Notes for Splendiferous

joadavis 3/26/2016

I had started building this as a one file script, but then started adding classes and it got sloppy.
And I got annoyed when I had to add import statements and give . references to everything.

So I thought I better step back and think a little more about design.


Main object - Gamesession
This represents each play of the game
initialized with the number of players, and resets the player scores, bank, mine cards, and generates x number of new noble cards
Game is over when the winning player reaches 15 victory points


token
represent a gem with one of the 5 gem types, or a wild gold token
owned by the bank or one of the players

mine card
come in 3 ranks, each with a different value
each has a cost in various gems
each provides a gem in value for the player to use
each may also be worth 0 or more victory points

Noble card
each has a value in gems that they are wanting
the want is either 4 of two gems or 3 of 3 gems
each noble card is worth 3 victory points
there are a few nobles per game session, defined by the number of players
- for 2 players there are 3 nobles
each noble is either positioned at the top of the board (owned by bank)
 or visits (owned by) a player

Player
either a human or a computer
has tokens, mines and nobles
has a hand of mine cards
keeps a score, and can be queried to determine if it has won
takes a turn
- could make the turn method return the current victory points
- may attract one noble (at start or end of turn?)
- takes one of the following actions if allowed
-- takes 3 different gems
-- takes 2 gems of the same type if 4 or more in bank
-- takes a mine card into hand and takes a wild token
-- buys/builds a mine from board or hand into play
victory points totaled from nobles and mines in play

Most objects will need a draw method to trigger it rendering per refresh cycle

Need the main flow to handle mouse clicks and determine which object is clicked
Not sure how to handle player turns.  Need to decide what the player wants to do
then place move tokens on the space they click.  Give a 'are you sure' dialog.

should it allow the player to take less than 3 even if 3 is possible, or even pass a turn?
might have to if the player has a full hand and the bank is empty.




------------------
April 6, 2016
Sigh again.  Having issues referencing font in different areas.
looking around the internet, ran across this
http://inventwithpython.com/blog/2010/09/01/the-top-10-pygame-tutorials/

Maybe its time for another big change - use the sprite class in pygame
http://programarcadegames.com/python_examples/f.php?file=move_sprite_mouse.py
you can create an image in the sprite once, then use it over and over
much better than drawing the graphics each time

start with the card class.  after I smash it all together again.


April 12, 2016
I did start some sprite conversion. Need to read the rest of the example.

mines and nobles are now sprites
    Realized I could do a front and back of the mines in one class
    But I'm concerned about adding all the mine sprites to the
    gamesession groups and rendering a bunch of card backs on top of
    each other. seems like a waste, so might create a 'deep stack'
    group for hidden cards.

need to do some cleanup now

there are 3 places a mine can be. ok, 4.
deck
face up on tableau
in player hand
in player possesion (active)

http://www.pygame.org/docs/ref/sprite.html

Need to figure out how to handle sprites like buttons, or define regions of
button click for different actions.
There are other libs, like pygsear, that add button widgets on top of pygame.


Thinking about using a button class like pygbutton from http://inventwithpython.com/blog/2012/10/30/creating-a-button-ui-module-for-pygame/
but that doesn't inherit from the Sprite class, which seems like a miss.
so what do I want out of a button or clickable object class?
- could either have an area on screen for your 'actions' this turn, that you
click and drag items (2 matching or 3 unique tokens, or a mine card) then push
an 'I'm sure' confirmation button to end your turn.
That would require having click and drag actions, then determining if the
item drug in collides with the action area, then making the action happen.
- Or, have a cursor that follows the mouse, and when collide and mousedown
drops an icon on the item (or takes it away like a toggle).  Then have a 'done'
button.  Would require keeping a short list of what was selected
(a tuple of sprite and icon sprite?) and knowing how to add/remove from the list.

Either case would require some validation that the selected action is legal.

Thinking about the plant/vertilizer/bird reskin.  Wonder which would look nicer
in terms of play.  The drag is likely to have a nice feel, though i'm not sure.
if use action icons, might be good to label the icons. Or have a list of
actions above the 'done' button (take ruby, take saph, take diamond;
                                 buy mine for 3 and 4)


april 23
Thinking of the decision tree for actions
if first click is
- card, then enable a 'take into hand + gold" button, and a "buy now" only if
  the player has enough
- card stack, then enable 'take into hand + gold button
- token, then drop a pick 1 icon and allow pick 2 and 3 iff pile counts allow

hmm, gaining a noble could happen automatically, but in more competitive
games players may choose which noble they claim so someone else can't.
But for a casual first pass, just pick the first noble that matches and
auto-award.
So do a noble check at the end of each player's turn.  Incorporate earnings
from that turn.

Current state is that i can draw tokens and cards and nobles, but nothing
is clickable yet.  Need to implement button class and do mouse collision checks.


The button thing seems to be a question about how much expert knowledge
the game has vs how each button has its own logic.  Ultimately the game
needs to make the decision if a move is valid and whose turn it is.
